all about India, by Philippa-Tracy, chapter 1, ancient and
medieval history.
Greetings! I am the spirit of Ashukha the Great. In
the third century B.C., I ruled
for almost four decades over the Morian Empire, the largest
empire in India. My emblem, the
Ashukha chakra wheel, is in the center of the Indian
flag and it symbolizes movement,
like a wheel, India is always in motion, constantly changing
and making progress.
The Indian subcontinent got its name from the word Indus,
because its first civilization,
the Indus Valley civilization, lived on the Indus River, in
today's Pakistan and
Northwest India. Being Emperor of India was not an easy
job, as the country was so
enormous, about 13 times the size of the UK. For
centuries, India was divided into
lots of small kingdoms, each governed by its own ruler.
This led to political problems,
as the rulers didn't always see things the same way.
With so many rulers governing at the same time,
it was very difficult for the emperor to keep universal
power over his empire.
Empires rose and empires fell, some lasted decades or centuries,
while others quickly
disintegrated because they had weak rulers. All these rulers changed
the face of India in some way,
but only one of them succeeded in uniting India's kingdoms
into one state.
His name was Chandra Gupta Moria, and he was the
powerful and strong warrior who founded the
Morian dynasty. He ruled as the first Morian emperor of
India from 321 to 297 BC.
By the way, he was also my grandfather. When Chandra
Gupta died, my father,
Bin Dusara, followed him and ruled from 297 to 272
or 3 BC. He had 16 wives and many children,
which meant there was a lot of competition for the
throne. After his death, the fighting for
the throne continued for four long years until I finally
got the most support. I took my father's
place as emperor in 268 BC and ruled until 232
BC, expanding India's territories even more.
I believed in Buddhism and dedicated my life to spreading
this religion in my country.
I was considered one of the most powerful emperors of
the Indian subcontinent in ancient times,
and mine was one of the most glorious and prosperous
periods in Indian history.
Maybe that's why my emblem appears on the modern Indian
flag.
When I died in 232 BC, my people were inconsolable.
According to legend,
people saw this as a sign of my greatness. Unfortunately,
all good things come to an end,
and the Morian Empire fell when the last of the
Morian rulers was killed in 185 BC.
However, the end of one era marks the beginning of
another, and there were many other emperors,
not as great as my grandfather and I if I
may say so, but who were also admirable and good
for the
country? Between the fourth and sixth centuries AD, India experienced
its golden age,
with powerful rulers like Chandragupta I and Chandragupta II. This
was a time of many
achievements in the fields of engineering, arts, science, technology and
religion.
During this period, chess was invented, and a monetary system
was used for the first time.
Later, impressive temples were built. Already in the 11th century
AD, builders managed to move
an 82,000 kg stone to the top of a
temple. How did they do that amazing thing? We still
don't know.
Archaeological evidence shows that water conservation for irrigation was another
important achievement of ancient India. Can you believe that people
still use this ancient
system today? Now let's move on to another important empire.
Have you ever wondered why so many
Indians are also Muslims? The first Muslims arrived in India
in the 8th century and slowly
began to conquer territory. Muslim invaders founded the Mughal Empire
in 1526. They were a strong
during the reign of Akbar the Great. The Mughals also
built impressive monuments like the Taj Mahal
and the Red Fort and introduced an effective tax collection
system. Although they were Muslims,
they were influenced by the Hindus and respected their culture.
Unfortunately,
not all the Mughal emperors were like Akbar. Many of
them were useless rulers who killed their own
families to win the throne. Orangzeb, the sixth emperor of
the Mughal Empire,
was particularly cruel. He imprisoned his father and ordered his
servants to cut off
his elder brother's head, which he sent to his father
in a basket. Despite his cruelty,
Orangzeb was the last of the great emperors of the
Mughal dynasty. By the time he died,
after ruling for almost 49 years, 1658-1707, the Mughal
Empire was already disintegrating.
His death marked the end of an era and the
beginning of the modern or colonial period.
There were other emperors after him, but the wars of
succession and bad administration
led to the collapse of the Mughal Empire in the
mid-18th century.
I would love to share more of India's fascinating ancient
and medieval history with you,
but I must continue in my search for self-knowledge,
so I'm leaving now.
It's time for you to learn about India's modern history,
Mahatma Gandhi and India's
fight for independence. CHAPTER II THE ROAD TO INDIPENDANCE
Colonial rule In the 1600s in Europe,
tea and spices were in high demand. India produced these,
so Queen Elizabeth I of England sent merchants to start
a trading company in India,
the British East India Company, EIC. It controlled all trade
between England and Asia.
For more than 100 years, the company traded mostly with
India buying cheap cotton cloth,
silk, sugar and spices, which they sold for a lot
of money.
The Mughal emperors permitted the British to build factories in
Bombay,
Madras and Calcutta, and as more and more British traders
went to live near the factories,
these areas developed into colonies. THE MARATAS AND GROWING BRITISH
INFLUENCE
The Maratas were Hindu warriors who were at war with
the Mughals. They had existed
since the 14th century, but as the Mughal Empire continued
to decline,
they started to become more powerful and they established their
own Maratha Empire in 1674.
After the last Mughal Emperor with any real power died
in 1748, the Maratas easily took
control of most of northern India. However, they didn't have
an emperor. They had several
Pishwas, Prime Ministers governing different areas. This weakened the power
of the Maratha Empire,
making it easier for the growing British population to take
control.
There were many problems between the British and the Governor
of Bengal,
Siraj Al-Dula, who had taken Calcutta from the British.
The tension led to the Battle
of Plasi in 1757. The British defeated Siraj Al-Dula's
army and then bribed their candidate
Mia Yafur to become the Governor of Bengal. This victory
in the Battle of Plasi led to
the expanding of British rule in India, which lasted for
almost 200 years.
In 1775, there was a fight for power among the
Pishwas, and the British East Indian Company
was implicated. This British interference in the affairs of the
Maratas led to the first of three
Anglo-Maratha Wars. In the Third War, in 1818, the
British defeated the Maratas.
Now British rule was even stronger, and they influenced daily
life in India.
Because the British needed more money, taxes and territories to
support their large armies,
they continued to fight. They conquered territory after territory, and
their empire grew.
The Indian people soon got tired of British rulers, who
had no respect for their religions,
and who tried to change some of their traditions. In
1857, the British officers went one step too
far by ordering Indian soldiers to load ammunition that had
cow and pig fat on it,
even though they knew that cows are holy to Hindus
and pigs are repulsive to Muslims.
Many people condemned the East India Company for allowing this
to happen,
and it led to the Indian Mutiny, which took the
lives of hundreds of thousands of soldiers.
At this point, Queen Victoria finally realised that a trading
company couldn't rule an empire,
and in 1858, she made India part of the British
Empire.
British rule and the struggle for freedom.
In 1905, the British government adopted a divide and rule
policy to stop Indians from uniting
against British rule in India. They divided Bengal into West
Bengal,
mainly Hindu, and East Bengal, mainly Muslim. Because if the
Hindus and Muslims were united,
they would have too much power and could challenge British
control over India.
The jewel in the crown of the British Empire.
In 1915, Mahatma Gandhi became president of the Indian National
Congress,
also known as the Congress Party, founded in 1885 to
fight against British rule in India.
He led the freedom struggle and believed in Ahimsa, the
practice of non-violence,
and used this in the fight for independence.
In 1919, the British government approved a law allowing them
to silence the press
and imprison political activists without a trial. Things got worse
when hundreds of
innocent Indian civilians were massacred at political meetings.
Now the Indians hated the British more than ever and
were even more determined to fight them.
Gandhi's answer was to create the non-cooperation movement in
1920 to continue the struggle for
Indian independence. This movement was one of Gandhi's first organized
acts of civil disobedience.
In this same year, the Indian National Congress reorganized itself
and performed acts of civil
disobedience like the salt march in 1930 to protest against
British taxes on salt.
Gandhi decided to march 388 kilometres from his home to
the Arabian Sea. As he marched,
others joined him. By the 5th of April 1930, they
were several thousand.
Gandhi picked up salt from the ground, the others took
salt too, but the British saw this act as a
crime. The Indians were supposed to buy salt from them,
not take it for free. They sent Gandhi
to prison for this. In 1942, Gandhi started the Quit
India movement, which demanded the
end of British rule over India. Marches, protests and freedom
speeches followed,
with many people arrested or killed. Fighting started between the
Muslims and the Hindus,
leading to the Indian Independence Act in 1947, by which
the UK partitioned British India
into two new independent dominions, India and Pakistan. In the
end, Gandhi achieved his objective.
The British flag was lowered and India was independent. Unfortunately,
India didn't live
from 1947 to 1999, mainly because of territorial conflicts over
the Kashmir region.
Tragically, on 30 January 1948, Mahatma Gandhi, the father of
the Indian nation,
was assassinated in New Delhi by a Hindu fanatic.
Ironic that the man who had dedicated his life to
non-violent protest was himself defeated
by a cruel act of violence. Chapter 3 – The
People of India
Imagine approximately 1.35 billion people living in a country
only three times bigger than the USA.
It's not surprising that India is so overpopulated. It has
the second largest population in the world.
More than 80% of the population is Hindu, so
you'd expect Hinduism to be the official religion.
But in fact, India doesn't have an official religion. Hinduism,
Islam, Buddhism, Sikhism and
Genism are just some of the many religions followed by
the people. India is also the world's largest
democracy, and the slogan, One Man, One Vote, is taken
very seriously. Everybody has the right
to vote, even if they live deep in a forest
like Bharat Das Darshandas, an elderly temple priest.
He is the only voter in the remote Geer Forest
in the state of Gujarat. Two policemen travel
through the lion-infested forest to get his vote. The
Caste System
For more than 3,000 years, India has had a
caste system which most people believe came from Brahma,
the Hindu god of creation. This system divides the population
into four main categories,
according to social importance and profession. Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishas and
Shudras.
The delits, also called untouchables, weren't even part of the
caste system because they were so low.
Each caste is represented by a different part of the
body of the Brahma statue.
Joahalal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, came from
the Brahmin caste.
This is the highest caste for priests and teachers.
Satartagatama, the Buddha, was a Kshatriya, the second highest caste.
Kshatriyas were warriors
and rulers of towns and cities. Mahatma Gandhi was born
to a family of Vaishas, the caste which
were mainly farmers, merchants and traders. Chandragupta I, ruler of
the Gupta dynasty,
was a Shudra from the lowest caste. Shudras were labourers
without any social and economic rights.
However, Chandragupta I worked hard and became a Kshatriya. Ramnatt
Koven was born a delit
or untouchable. The people who cleaned the streets and the
toilets.
He came from a poor family and grew up in
a poor hut with six brothers and sisters.
He didn't even have a bicycle, so he walked eight
kilometers to school every day.
But believe it or not, he became president of India
in 2017.
Brahmins, priests and teachers.
Vaishas, farmers, traders and merchants. Shudras, labourers, delits, outside the
caste system,
street sweepers and toilet cleaners. The caste system remained unchanged
for centuries,
trapping people into a classification system from which it was
very difficult to escape.
You were born into a caste and could only marry
a person of the same caste.
It was very difficult to move to a higher or
lower caste. In rural communities,
the upper and lower castes usually lived in segregated colonies
and they didn't drink
from the same springs. Brahmins would not accept food or
drink from Shudras.
Today, the caste system still exists, mainly in rural areas,
but it has much less influence.
In the cities, different castes live side by side and
even into marry.
Some delits and low caste Indians have advanced to occupy
important positions in the country,
like Ramnatt Kavind.
Widows
It might be hard to imagine, but India has another
group of people who are treated
even worse than the untouchables. Widows.
There are approximately 55 million widows in India and their
lives are very difficult.
In the past, when a married man died in India,
his widow used to kill herself on his funeral fire.
Now widows are not expected to do this, but they
are forced to mourn their dead husbands
for the rest of their lives. They are rejected from
society and people think they bring bad luck.
Many widows are thrown out of their homes by their
husbands' families,
who consider them a financial dependent, or by their children
who see them as a burden.
They can't marry again or go to weddings, even of
their own children.
They must wear white because in Hinduism, white is the
colour of mourning.
Even worse, widows are not allowed to work and provide
for themselves,
so they are forced to live in poverty, singing prayers
in temples or begging for food and a roof
over their head. Considered useless without a husband, thousands of
them escaped to Brindavana,
known as the city of widows in the north of
India. This is home to more than 20,000 widows
who depend on charity and are simply waiting to die.
Some organisations are trying to help the
widows of Brindavana and give them some money every month,
but as many can't read or write,
they can't even manage to go to the bank to
take their money out. Clearly, there is a long way
to
go to change the attitude to this vulnerable and neglected
section of Indian society.
Chapter 4. Religion, Customs and Language
Religions There are four main religions in India. Hinduism,
80%, Islam, 14%, Christianity, 2%, and Sikhism, 2%. Buddhism and
Genism are also important
and are followed by one percent of the population.
Hinduism To me, Hinduism is more a way of life
than a religion.
It developed from the religion of the Aryans who arrived
in India around 1500 B.C.
Like all Hindus, I believe in one God named Brahman.
Many people think all Hindus are vegetarian,
but that's not true. We are allowed to eat meat,
although I prefer to be a vegetarian.
Islam I come to you in the name of Allah,
the one and only God of the Muslims, to teach
Islamic
law. In Islam, we don't believe in the caste system.
We have our own social classes. We live
according to the laws of the Quran, which prohibit us
from eating pork.
4. Christianity
I am a Roman Catholic, one of many Christian denominations
in India.
I believe in one God, and that every human being
is his child, and a brother or sister of Jesus
Christ. I want to break down the caste system. Sikhism
I am a follower of the Sikh religion, which was
founded by Guru Nanak in the late 15th century.
We believe in one God, and we believe you don't
have to pray or go to a priest to connect
with him.
In the Sikh religion, everyone is equal. We don't have
social classes and don't follow the caste
system. When it comes to food, we can choose to
eat meat or not.
Genism
If you can't live without your mobile phone, you wouldn't
make a very good gen. We don't believe
in material things or showing violence to any living being.
We have got many gods.
We don't believe in the caste system, and we're vegetarian.
Actually, I don't even eat onions
or potatoes, because when you pull them up from the
earth, it damages tiny organisms in there.
Buddhism
Prince Siddhata Gattama, the Buddha, is my hero. He became
enlightened and founded Buddhism
over two and a half thousand years ago. That is
my mission, to have my eyes opened to see how
the world really works. I go to a special place
called an ashram to do yoga and meditation and
to teach religion. I'm vegetarian, but it's not a rule
among Buddhists. I don't believe in the
caste system, and I don't believe in the existence of
just one God.
Customs and Beliefs
Holy cow is a way of showing surprise in English,
but did you know that cows really are holy to
Hindus? In Hinduism, the mother figure is like a goddess.
Since cows give milk and have a
gentle nature, they are associated with mothers. They are considered
holy, and Hindus idolise them.
In India, there are more than 3,000 institutions which
look after old or sick cows.
Symbolism of the Snake
You might think snakes are scary and dangerous, but not
in India.
There the snake is holy, a symbol of rebirth, death
and mortality, because it sheds its skin
and is reborn. All around India, you can see cobras
made from wood or stone.
Some Indians believe that if you accidentally kill a cobra,
it must be cremated like a human.
In addition, both Hindus and Buddhists believe in the holiness
of a serpent God called naga,
and every year they have a procession in its honour.
Hindus idolise snakes in temples, offering them milk, incense and
prayers.
Language
Hindi and English are the official languages of India, although
Sanskrit is spoken by Hindus,
Buddhists and Jens. At the time of British rule in
India, the country was divided into many
states with their own dialects, and 22 different languages were
spoken. English was a common
language for people of all the different areas to communicate
with each other. It remained the
language of communication after the British left the country.
English is widely spoken in the country today, and ironically,
India is the largest English-speaking
nation in the world. Most colleges and universities use English
for teaching, and it has become a
language of status. If you want to study at university
and get a good job, you must know English.
However, don't assume that all Indians speak English fluently. They
don't. Also, understanding
their accent can sometimes be quite a challenge. The elephant
holds a special place in Indian culture,
particularly in the ancient temples of Kerala, south-western India,
which are home to hundreds
of captive elephants. Hindus believe elephants are holy animals, the
reincarnation of Lord Ganesh,
a god with an elephant head who rides on a
tiny mouse.
Many tourists come to Kerala to admire the elephants, particularly
during festival season,
December to May, when the animals are decorated with ornaments
and exhibited through the streets.
It's an extravagant and colourful spectacle, but many people think
it's cruel, as the elephants
are houts. Lifestyle
Indian culture is full of unique traditions and customs.
One of these practices is the habit of being late.
In India, time has little meaning.
People say the only time Indians aren't late is for
cricket matches, and that's probably because
the umpires aren't Indians. Indians have their own particular way
of dressing.
Women often wear a traditional dress called as sahri, which
is wrapped around the body and
over the shoulder. Men in villages still wear traditional clothes.
A kurda is a shirt that reaches
the knees and is worn over a skirt-like garment.
The salwa kamis, tapered trousers and a long tunic,
is another type of dress that has become very popular
with the younger generation.
Traditional values are very important to Indians. Both in the
past and present, an Indian's family
name is based on his caste, place of origin or
family occupation. Men are still considered
the head of the family, but today women work too
and contribute significantly to the family's
financial situation. Chapter 5. Geography
Great things often happen by accident, and Bharat is one
of them.
Bharat is the official name of the Republic of India,
the seventh biggest country in the world.
Around 50 or 60 million years ago, this enormous peninsula
crashed into Asia,
forming the Himalayas and Hindu Kush mountains. The Himalayas in
the north form the world's
highest mountains. Many of India's rarest animals and plants live
there, and if you're very lucky,
you may even see a snow leopard. The Indian peninsula
is surrounded by the Bay of Bengal
in the southeast, the Arabian Sea in the southwest and
the Indian Ocean in the south.
It's bordered by Bhutan, China and Nepal in the northeast,
Myanmar and Bangladesh in the east,
and Pakistan in the west. One of the things that
make India so unique is its strategic location,
halfway between east and west Asia. From India, Africa is
easily accessible via the Indian Ocean,
and Europe via the Suez Canal. The Strait of Malacca
is one of the most important shipping
routes between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Before
1911, the capital of India was
Kolkata, formerly known as Kolkata, but on the 12th of
December 1911, the British King George VI,
who was also Emperor of India, announced that the capital
should be in Delhi instead,
as this was the political and financial centre of the
country.
The new capital, New Delhi, was inaugurated in 1931. Today,
New Delhi has a population of
almost 19 million people. Climate
There's a variety of terrain in India. In the tar
desert, in the west, the weather is hot
and dry, but if you travel to the northeast, you'll
find jungles. In northern India,
there's an area called the Ganges Plain. It's very fertile
because water from natural springs
runs down the Himalayas, taking fertile sediments with it. This
is very important for growing crops.
Since half the country depends on agriculture.
When there are floods in the Ganges Plain, the farmers
use the water for irrigation.
Floods are common in India because it has so many
rivers and is a peninsula.
There are also the monsoons, which occur from June to
September,
when the direction of the wind changes causing a lot
of heavy rain to fall.
Wildlife
In some parts of India, don't be surprised if you
see an elephant having a massage.
In Guru Vaiya Elephant Sanctuary, there's a spa exclusively for
elephants,
where they get royal treatment, luxurious baths, relaxing massages, and
a special diet.
The elephants here are much more fortunate than those who
work for the tourist industry.
India is home to a wide range of animals thanks
to its varied climate.
It's the only country in the world where you can
find both lions and tigers.
On the coast of the Bay of Bengal lies the
Sunda bands, the world's biggest mangrove forest.
Here you can find tigers swimming in the same rivers
as dolphins, sea turtles, sharks,
and saltwater crocodiles. Sadly, this area is being destroyed by
man,
who hunts animals and cuts down trees for firewood.
The Ganges River
The Ganges got its name from the Hindu goddess Ganges.
This 2,500 kilometer long river plays a very important
role in the lifestyle of the people
who live on its banks. They grow crops along the
river because the earth is very fertile
and they use its water for irrigation. Varanasi, the holiest
city in Hinduism,
is located on the banks of the Ganges. People throw
the ashes of their dead relatives into the
river as they believe it sends the ashes to heaven.
The Ganges is the fifth most contaminated
river in the world, but that doesn't stop it from
being India's most important and holy river
to more than one billion Indians. Locals bathe in the
Ganges, drink from it,
and perform purification rituals in it. At the Kumba Mela
festival,
millions of people come to wash away their sins. The
festival takes place in Alabad,
a city in northern India where three important rivers meet.
Crowds of people stand on the riverbank at Sangam, the
meeting point of these three rivers,
reciting Hindu scriptures as they wait for their turn to
enter the cold water.
Religious leaders from Hindu monasteries lead the ceremony.
They throw flowers at the people in the water shouting,
long live the Ganges, chapter 6, famous places and attractions.
The Taj Mahal
The Taj Mahal in Agra is one of the seven
wonders of the modern world.
You may think $827 million is a lot to spend
on someone you love,
but Emperor Shah Jahan didn't think twice. In the 17th
century,
he built the Taj Mahal as a symbol of love
in memory of his third and favorite wife,
the Persian princess Mumtaz Mahal. Shah loved Mumtaz with all
his heart,
and when she died, while giving birth to their 14th
child, he was heartbroken.
He wanted to do something to honor her, so he
designed and ordered the building of the world's
most beautiful tomb on the banks of the Yamuna River.
It took 20,000 workers almost 22 years to build
this spectacular mausoleum from white marble,
with floral decorations made from precious stones. Every year, around
6 million people
visit the Taj Mahal and admire its splendor.
Mumbai
Mumbai is the most overpopulated city in India.
It's busy, crowded and unpredictable. Don't be surprised to see
a poor hut next to a
multi-million dollar home, or a national park in the
middle of the city with wild animals
walking around freely. Almost 14 million people live in Mumbai.
That's more than twice the number
of inhabitants per square kilometre in New York. What's more,
by 2020, it's estimated that Mumbai
will have a population of 27 million people.
Mumbai and New York have their similarities, but pace isn't
one of them.
If you're in a hurry, don't try to send a
package to a foreign country from the Indian
post office. A special person, called a package waller, puts
your package in a cloth sack
and seals it with a wax stamp, which takes over
an hour.
Riding a train in Mumbai during rush hour is an
experience you'll never forget.
The Indian Railway Company tries to fit 500 people into
a train carriage meant for 188.
The rest sit on the roof. Is that why around
3000 people die in train-related accidents every year?
Film City
Who hasn't heard of Bollywood? The Hindi language film industry.
The name comes from a combination of Bombay, now known
as Mumbai, and Hollywood, the American
equivalent. Unlike Hollywood, Bollywood isn't an actual place, but Film
City is. It's located in
Mumbai and almost all Bollywood films are made there. At
Film City, there are many different types
of film locations, including lakes, gardens, villages, a temple, a
prison, a court and a waterfall.
You can take a guided tour and visit film sets.
Those who prefer to be in a Bollywood film and
not just visit the set of one can spend time
in a popular shopping and dining district, where foreigners are
often asked if they would like to
be extras. Maybe 800 rupees, around 10 euros, isn't much
for a day's work, but the experience is
certainly worth a lot more. Varanasi
For some tourists, it's quite a shock to see the
sight of unburned body parts floating on the
tangies. That's a sure sign that they're in Varanasi, the
city of 23,000 temples.
Almost two and a half million people visit Varanasi every
year. Many of them are close to
the end of their life and they come to bathe
in the Holy River. In Hinduism and Buddhism,
Nirvana is the highest state that someone can reach. It's
a state of enlightenment,
a place of perfect peace and happiness. Hindus believe that
dying in Varanasi brings salvation
and Nirvana, so they travel to the city as soon
as they realize they are close to death.
After death, they are purified in the Ganges and then
cremated. Any unburned body parts are thrown
into the river. Gats are places with steps that lead
down to the banks of the river.
In Varanasi, some Gats are for bathing or religious ceremonies,
while others are only used for cremations. CHAPTER 7
Festivals
Indians celebrate a multitude of festivals that contribute to the
country's rich culture,
traditions and spirituality. Some of the festivals are celebrated all
around the country,
while others are only celebrated in specific regions. Being a
part of any of these festivals
is a colourful experience. DIVALI
Horrendous traffic jams and a spectacular fireworks display
announced that Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, has arrived.
This is India's biggest
and most important holiday. The name Diwali means rose of
lighted lamps, and it's easy to
see why. The whole country is illuminated by lamps called
Dias, candles and fireworks,
as Hindus celebrate the triumph of light over dark and
of good over evil.
Hindus believe in one true God, Brahman, but they have
many other gods too. One of the most
important gods is Lord Rama, who had many adventures. In
one of these, he killed the Demon King
Ravana, who had captured Rama's beloved wife Sita. The lamps
that illuminate
India during Diwali are to help Rama and Sita find
their way home after the defeat of the demon.
In Tharavi, a very poor area in Mumbai, 2,500
potter families spend days making Dias before
the festival starts. Men make them from clay and bake
them in ovens. After that,
women paint them and children help to pack them for
sale. Everybody plays a part in the festivities.
Like Christmas, Diwali is a holiday where families come together
to share sweets and gifts.
It's celebrated for five days, and on each day, different
prayers are recited and different
rituals are performed. In certain regions of Rajasthan, women participate
in a special ritual,
dancing in a circle with a flaming pot on their
heads. In Goa, people build big, scary statues
of the legendary tyrant Narakasura, a cruel and unpopular leader
who try to kill one of
beloved gods, Lord Krishna. Lord Krishna cut off Narakasura's head,
and in celebration of this, the huge statues are burnt
on the night before Diwali.
Durga Puja
Durga Puja is both an arts festival and a religious
celebration. It is celebrated mainly in West
is in honor of the goddess Durga, the symbol of
divine feminine energy and her victory
over the evil buffalo demon Mahishasura. Kolkata's artisans spend a
year preparing for the festival.
They make special platforms and display ten armed statues of
the goddess Durga on them.
During the festival, people go from platform to platform to
see these works of art,
and on the last day, they join a procession to
the Ganges River, where the statues are submerged
in the water. Durga Puja has a number of religious
rituals. In one of them, a small banana plant
is dressed in a sari, bazed in a nearby river
and then used to attract Durga's energy and holy
presence. Huli
Huli, known as the festival of colors, celebrates the arrival
of spring and the victory of good
over evil. In most places, Huli is celebrated for two
days, and if you don't mind getting wet
and dirty, it can be a lot of fun. The
first night, Holikadhan starts with a public fire
symbolizing the burning of Holikad, the devil. People have parties
and dance under water sprinklers.
Rangwali Huli starts the next morning. People put color all
over each other's faces and throw
water on each other while saying, don't be offended, it's
Huli. Some of them first put coconut oil on
their skin, which makes it easier to clean, so they
won't look like a walking rainbow for a week
after the festival. The British band Coldplay filmed the video
clip of their song,
Him for the Weekend at the Huli Festival, chapter 8.
Food Glorious Food
India's multinational population and a significant role in the spice
trade
explain why Indian food explodes with flavor. A variety of
factors have influenced Indian cooking,
like the chili pepper brought from Mexico by the Portuguese,
the chutney developed by British
housewives and their Indian cooks, and new food ideas introduced
by Indians returning from their
travels. Many of the dishes are based on rice, grains
and pulses. Although the food differs from
region to region, you can be certain that everything is
made with plenty of spices,
like garam masala, a combination of dried spices. Chutney is
an important ingredient in Indian dishes.
Many of us have eaten sweet mango chutney, sour mint
chutney or hot chili chutney,
but you've probably never tried chapra, red ant chutney. A
tribe from Bastar in Chhattisgarh
collects tons of stinging biting ants and their eggs, which
are crushed, dried and ground into a
powder. Tomatoes, cilantro, garlic, ginger, chili, salt and sugar are
added to make the hot,
spicy orange-coloured chutney. If you don't mind eating ants,
chapra is very healthy because
ants contain an acid with medicinal properties. Exotic Foods
If you think Indian food is only about spices, curries
and vegetables, think again. In Assam,
people eat a delicacy called eripolu. It's made from the
pupa of silkworms and served with
chorissa, a dish made from fermented bamboo shoots. Another exotic
dish,
sore potter, is a kind of stew that's eaten in
Goa. It looks quite harmless,
but it's made from a pig's internal organs. Dishes made
from dried fish are another delicacy
in many parts of India. Nakam takes the prize for
being the smellyest of all the fish dishes.
It's a curry made from dried fish mixed with vegetables
and distilled ashes.
The Tali Indian restaurants offer a multitude of dishes,
so the Tali, the Hindi word for a large plate,
is the perfect solution for indecisive people,
and it's popular in many regions of the country. It
consists of a selection of curries,
vegetables, sauces and yogurt. The food is served in small
bowls on a round tray
with a mountain of rice in the middle. It comes
with chutney, pickles and poppodums,
a thin round crispy bread. The dishes in the Tali
are eaten in a special order.
For example, you start with the vegetables, followed by rice
mixed with a spicy lentil sauce
called sambha. Next, the spiciest of the sauces is served,
and then the rasam,
a sauce made from tomatoes. You eat a small portion
of rice with each of the sauces.
By this time, your palate will be on fire, so
you'll be ready for the yogurt mixed with rice.
For dessert, the Tali sometimes includes something sweet. Tali is
good for your digestion,
because it's a balanced meal. Eating habits. It's not just
the food in India that's unusual,
but also the way it's eaten and served. In Europe,
eating with your hands is not considered
very polite, but in India it's a tradition. In fact,
when you eat with your hands,
you enjoy your food more, because it stimulates the senses.
Indians believe that touching your food helps you feel the
taste, texture and aroma,
but you must only use your right hand because the
left hand is considered unclean.
In the south of India, it's a tradition to serve
food on banana leaves instead of plates.
Firstly, it's healthier because when you put hot food on
a banana leaf,
it releases nutrients that are good for you.
Secondly, it tastes and smells better. Thirdly, it's environmentally friendly,
but the best part is that there are no plates
to wash at the end of the meal.
Maybe we should all try this idea. Chapter 9. Famous
People
Mahatma Gandhi Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
was known to his people as Mahatma, which means Great
Soul, or Bapu, which means Father.
Gandhi was born in Pobanda, India, in 1869. He came
from a well-respected family,
and his parents arranged for him to marry Kasturba Mahanji
when he was thirteen.
This may seem strange to you, but for an Indian
boy it was expected.
His parents wanted him to become a lawyer, so he
studied law in London and then went to South
Africa to find employment. While he was travelling on a
train one day, Gandhi was asked to leave
the first-class carriage even though he had a valid
ticket. The reason? His skin colour.
He was furious, and this marked the start of his
fight against racial discrimination.
In 1894, Gandhi founded the Natal Indian Congress, and protested
against injustice to Indians in South Africa.
Gandhi stayed in South Africa for twenty years, and then
returned to India, but things weren't
better there. The British discriminated against the Indians, and Gandhi
refused to accept this,
so he dedicated his life to fighting for equality.
He organised non-violent civil disobedience campaigns in which people
didn't go to work or eat,
sat in the streets, or boy-cotted the courts. These
acts may seem small, but when thousands
of people did them at the same time, it had
a huge impact. Gandhi was arrested many times and
imprisoned, but his many followers and worldwide support made sure
that he didn't stay in prison
for long, especially because the British were afraid of what
might happen if he died in prison.
Finally, Gandhi's efforts paid off, and he won the battle
for independence for the Indian people.
Sadly, Gandhi the pacifist was shot and killed by a
Hindu fanatic on his way to prayers in New
Delhi on the 30th of January, 1948.
Mother Teresa
Mother Teresa won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979. In
1985, she received the Medal of Freedom,
the highest honour awarded by the President of the United
States to a civilian.
She devoted her life to charity work and was declared
a saint in 2016.
Mother Teresa was born in Scopia, Macedonia, in 1910. At
the age of 18, she joined a group of nuns
in
Ireland, where she learned English. After training, she was sent
to India, where she became a nun in
1931. In that year, she started teaching in a school
for girls in Kolkata. At 36, she discovered
her mission in life, to help the sick and the
poor. She learned how to give medical care and
started doing charity work. It wasn't easy, and there were
times when she herself had to beg for food.
In 1950, Mother Teresa founded The Missionaries of Charity, an
organisation that cared for the poor,
hungry, homeless, disabled, and anyone who was not accepted in
society.
She opened many charity houses around the world, but is
best known for her work in India.
Mother Teresa died at the age of 87, on the
5th of September 1997. At the time of her death,
the Missionaries of Charity were running 610 missions in 123
countries.
Sashintendulka
People say that if cricket were a religion, Sashintendulka would
be the god.
The retired cricketer and captain is the greatest and most
admired Indian cricketer of all time.
No other player has ever scored so many runs in
international cricket.
Tendulka received numerous awards for his notable achievements in sport,
and after his final match in 2013, he was awarded
the Bharat Ratna, the highest award given by
the Indian government to a civilian. No other sport person
has ever received this award.
Tendulka was born in Mumbai in 1973. He started playing
cricket when he was 11
and practised for hours, showing his incredible batting skills while
still at school.
When he was 14, a famous Indian batsman called Sunil
Gavaskar inspired him.
Gavaskar made his international debut when he was 16 and
20 years later,
Tendulka broke Gavaskar's record.
Tendulka was highly motivated and became a champion cricketer, representing
Mumbai and
India in cricket for almost 24 years. In 2011, he
won the cricket world cup with his team,
making India very proud. Chapter 10. Sport. Cricket
There is no doubt that cricket is India's most popular
sport, thanks to the British.
In a cricket match, there are two teams with 11
players in each team. They take turns batting
and fielding. The objective of the batting team is to
score as many runs as possible.
The fielding players run around the cricket field to catch
the ball and stop the batsman
from scoring runs. The winner is the team with the
most runs in an innings,
which is when every player in the team has batted.
Cricket became popular in India in the 17th century. During
the British rule,
the Maharaja, King of Patyala, played and supported cricket. He
was captain of the Indian
cricket team in 1911 and played in first class cricket
matches between 1915 and 1937.
The Maharaja's summer residence, the Child Palace, had the world's
highest cricket ground,
which was 2,250 metres high with forests all around.
India's national team won the Cricket World Cup in 1983
and 2011, as well as other important trophies.
India also holds the world record for winning all the
ICC International Cricket Council
tournaments when MS Thuni was the captain. Field Hockey
Most Indian sports fans consider field hockey the national sport
of India
due to their excellent performances in past Olympics.
In field hockey, there are 11 players in each team.
The objective of the game is to score more
goals than the opposing team by hitting the ball past
the goalkeeper and across the goal line.
Players aren't allowed to kick, hold or carry the ball.
They use wooden hockey sticks instead.
In the beginning, the Indian team was invincible, taking home
six Olympic gold medals from 1928
to 1956 and two more in 1964 and 1980. In
addition, India has won one silver and two bronze Olympic
medals. More hockey medals than any other team in the
world. They also won the 1975 World Cup
tournament in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. But after 1980, they lost
their supremacy,
mainly because of a change in the rules. Until the
early 1970s, hockey was played on grass.
Then, in the mid 1970s, the International Hockey Federation decided
to make it a
obligatory for all international hockey tournaments to be played on
Astroturf.
This change was implemented in the 1976 Montreal Olympics. And
guess what happened?
India didn't even win a bronze medal. There aren't many
Astroturf grounds in India
because they are expensive to lay and difficult to play
on. However, in western countries like
Holland, Germany and Australia, there are lots of Astroturf grounds,
so Europe and Australia have now become the leaders in
field hockey.
Today, field hockey is much more popular than it used
to be, both in India and other countries.
Women also play field hockey and they are very good
at it. According to the International Hockey
Federation, the Indian Women's Hockey Team is ranked 13th and
it is won three gold medals
consecutively in international competitions. Kabadi. Kabadi is a very exciting
team sport that
is popular in Indian villages. It dates back to ancient
times and was played by princes
to prove how strong they were. Kabadi is played on
a small field divided into two halves.
There are two teams of seven players and each team
takes turns sending a raider
and attacking player into the other half. The raider has
to eliminate his opponents
and then return to his half of the field without
being stopped by the defenders.
At the same time, he has to hold his breath
and chant Kabadi Kabadi Kabadi the whole time.
The team that eliminates more opponents wins. The founder of
Buddhism, Prince Siddhata Gattama,
played Kabadi with his friends. The game requires both intelligence
and physical strength.
You also have to be in good shape and be
able to anticipate what the opponent is going to do.
India has been very successful at this sport, winning all
the Kabadi World Cup tournaments
and gold medals in all the Asian games. Chapter 11.
Films. More Fact than Fiction.
In the past, Indian films were mainly the Bollywood romantic
musicals of the Hindi language film
industry. But more recently, English films about India expose the
Western world to some of the
country's more serious problems, like poor sanitation, poverty, pollution, child
marriage
and the terrible treatment of widows. Many of these films
are based on true stories
and paint a realistic picture of daily life, projecting images
that remain in the audience's mind
even after they leave the cinema. These films show facts
that cannot be ignored.
Toilet. A Love Story.
The Inspiration for Toilet, a Love Story, 2017, came from
the true story of Anita Nari,
a poor Indian woman who discovered after she got married
that her new house didn't have a toilet.
This may seem trivial to you, but to Indian women
who are in danger of being sexually assaulted
if they relieve themselves outside, it's a serious problem. For
this reason,
many women go out in groups when they need to
go to the toilet and wait until it gets dark
so that nobody will see them. In the film, Anita
almost divorces her husband,
but in the end he builds her a toilet in
their home and their marriage is saved.
People relieving themselves in public places is a terrible problem
in India
and according to UNICEF, more than half a million people
still do that.
The government has initiated a campaign to try and solve
this problem.
A new mobile phone app tells people where to find
the nearest toilet,
and thousands of toilets have been installed around the country,
but unfortunately, many of them don't actually work.
Water
Deeper Metas Water, 2005, examines the social restrictions imposed on
widows
and exposes an ancient Hindu law that a widow must
either marry her dead husband's brother
or kill herself on her husband's funeral fire. This film
caused a lot of controversy in India.
On more than one occasion, the film sets were destroyed
and Deeper's life was threatened,
so the Indo-Canadian director moved to the filming from
India to Sri Lanka.
Water is set in 1938 at a time when child
marriage was common in India,
and even young child widows were discriminated against.
It centers on the lives of Chuya, a little Indian
girl who is widowed at the age of eight.
After the death of her forty-year-old husband, Chuya
is sent to an ashram where her hair is
cut off and she has to wear white. She believes
that her mother will come and take her home,
but in reality, she is destined to remain in the
ashram forever because she is now a widow.
Lion
The award-winning film Lion, 2016, is based on the
true story of Saru Brieli,
a lost little boy who travels 1,600 kilometres alone
by train to Kolkata trying to find his big brother.
Saru is put in an orphanage and finally adopted by
an Australian couple who live in Tasmania.
Every year, more than 80,000 children go missing in
India, and over 11 million children spend
their lives on the streets. Saru is one of them,
and we see his struggle to survive as a street
child, sleeping in train stations on a cardboard box and
eating food from rubbish bins. As an adult,
he lives a good life with his adopted family, but
is tormented by memories of his childhood.
After 25 years, Saru decides to try and find his
biological mother.
With the help of Google satellite maps and faint memories
of the night he lost his brother,
he struggles to try and locate the village where he
was born and the family he left behind.
Slumdog Millionaire
Slumdog Millionaire, 2008, is based on the life of a
real person named Sushil Kumar.
The word Slumdog refers to someone who lives in a
slum, a very poor area of the town.
Sushil, 26, came from a very poor family that didn't
even have money to buy a TV set,
but his life changed forever when he won $1 million
on the Indian version of the TV show
who wants to be a millionaire. To a series of
flashbacks,
Slumdog Millionaire shows the events that led Sushil to win
the competition.
We see the terrible living conditions and poor sanitation in
Dharavi, a famous slum in contemporary
Mumbai. For six children, two of whom came from the
slums, acting in this film gave them a chance
for a new life. Director Danny Boyle arranged for them
to be educated after the filming and made
sure that they attended the Oscars in 2009, where the
film won several awards, Chapter 12.
India Today
Jawaalal Nehru, India's first Prime Minister, had high hopes for
his country.
The night before India was declared a republic, Nehru expressed
his feelings of triumph,
but warned the Indian people that their new freedom was
going to bring responsibility.
He warned them not to rest in the future, but
to keep trying to make things better.
Today, India has the fastest growing economy in the world,
and it is predicted that by 2050,
it will have the second largest economy after China. The
country is, indisputably, an emerging
superpower, but the road to achieving Nehru's hopes for the
future is long.
Despite India's growing power, many obstacles still need to be
dealt with.
Poverty, lack of sanitation, road accidents, and pollution are everywhere.
The government is taking measures to deal with these issues,
and the progress is significant,
but it isn't happening fast enough.
The Obstacles
India has the world's largest poor population. Between 1993 and
2011, the number of poor people
dropped 25%, but there are still around 270 million people
living below the poverty line.
Around 45% of these people can't read or write,
which leads to poverty because they can't find
jobs easily. The situation is improving though. Between 2001 and
2011, the number of illiterate
people was reduced by 31 million. With regard to sanitation,
80% of the poor live in rural areas
and have little access to basic services. Only 21%
have proper toilets, 61% have electricity,
and only 6% have access to tap water. As
a result, sanitation is poor, and diseases spread easily
and quickly. The good news is that things are changing.
Today, the average life expectancy
is 69, whereas in 1960, it was 41, so we
can see that India has made a lot of progress
in this area.
Another problem in India is the frequency of traffic accidents,
which is amongst the highest
in the world. According to a government agency report, more
than 135,000 people in India die
in traffic accidents every year. One cause of accidents is
drivers speeding while talking
on their mobile phones. A group of Indian researchers have
developed a low-cost device
which prevents drivers from receiving or making mobile phone calls
while driving,
but allows other passengers to call. Other causes of accidents
are driving under the
influence of alcohol, not using seatbelts and bike riders not
using helmets. Overcrowded roads
in bad condition don't help the situation either. A visit
to Agra will confirm how
serious India's air pollution problem is. The once-white marble
exterior of the magnificent
Taj Mahal is gradually turning yellow. In New Delhi, a
15-metre high mountain of
rubbish supports the claim that the capital is one of
the world's most polluted cities.
There aren't enough disposal areas for all of India's rubbish,
and the few existing ones
can't possibly hold anymore, so people burn waste outside their
homes. This results in
a blanket of smoke over many of India's villages, towns
and cities. In addition,
rubbish is thrown from passing trains, and the waste from
train toilets is released
directly onto the tracks. Rubbish is everywhere, even in the
sacred Ganges River.
How is the government dealing with this problem? Firstly, they
are paying people to sort the rubbish
into categories to be recycled, redistributed or disposed of. People
receive a salary and keep
any additional money made from selling the things they find
in the rubbish. This new measure reduces
the rubbish significantly, helping the environment and reducing poverty. Secondly,
new rules for
waste disposal were introduced in 2016 to help the problem,
but they haven't been very effective
because they aren't enforced.
Cheap Labour in India
Have you ever wondered why so many companies outsource their
call centres to India?
It's because India has a high number of English speakers
who are ready to work hard for a low
salary, but they don't only work in call centres. When
you buy something on Amazon or book a
ticket on Virgin, a lot of the computer processing work
is done by people in India as this is more
lucrative. Tomorrow's India
By 2087, India will have the world's largest population. Today,
half of this population consists
of young people under the age of 25, many coming
from underdeveloped places in the north of the
country without education or qualifications. However, these are India's future
leaders,
so the government would like to alter the situation.
They created a plan called Skill India, hoping to provide
500 million people with skills
by 2022, but this ambitious project met many obstacles and
has now been abandoned.
At the moment, it's impractical because so many people don't
always have access to schools,
banks and other services, but the digital age brings hope
as more services and education
are available online, so maybe things will improve in the
future.
Despite all these obstacles, India attracts larger numbers of tourists
every year.
It's difficult not to be captivated by India's spectacular landscapes
and architecture,
exotic cuisine and incredible spirituality.
The English band, the Beatles, have in common with Mira
Afasa, a French-born spiritual leader
known as the Mother. Both imagined a world without any
countries,
nothing to kill or die for, no religion and people
living life in peace.
The Mother's vision led to the founding of Orville, City
of Dawn, an experimental town
in Tamil Nadu, India.
Afasa founded Orville in 1968, transforming a useless piece of
land into a green forest.
Her dream was to promote human unity, practice sustainable living
and provide for the future.
A reality. Orville is trying to be a self-sufficient
town.
Farms produce organic food and energy systems generate solar, wind
and gas energy.
The people who live in Orville lead a unique lifestyle
without politics or religion,
which they believe can divide people. But not everything is
perfect in Orville.
The original idea was for the population to work for
the community and for the community
to take care of them. But this hasn't worked too
well.
Orvilleans need help from volunteers. Otherwise, they can't maintain the
community.
Although everybody receives basic health care and education,
some people have found ways to make extra money and
live a better lifestyle.
Despite the problems, the dream is still alive to have
a community
that doesn't waste the Earth's resources and lives in peace
and harmony.
Would you like to live there?
Page 80. Cross-curricular Focus.
The Yoga Community
From Hollywood film stars to the New Zealand rugby players,
yoga is becoming more and more popular. In fact, in
the USA, there are more
yoga studios than Starbucks coffee shops. Today, people in the
western world practice yoga to
improve flexibility, alleviate stress and get physically fit. But 5
,000 years ago,
people from the Indus Sarasvati civilization practiced yoga for a
different reason.
To discover their true nature. To do this, people try
to control their thoughts.
We all think thoughts, and they control how we feel.
They can make us feel happy or depressed.
By practicing yoga, people focus on their thoughts for a
long period of time and can begin to
understand more about themselves. The special technique of controlling your
thoughts is called
meditation, and it existed as early as 1500 BC. In
ancient times, people went to an ashram,
meaning a shelter. In those days, the ashram was the
house of the guru. A guru is a spiritual
teacher who guides his or her disciples to a deeper
understanding of themselves.
In the past, children as young as 5 went to
the guru's house to learn how to behave like Brahman,
the one true God. Can you imagine leaving your parents
at the age of 5?
Very talented children graduated and received a Brahmana degree. In
the course of time,
these children became gurus and went on to teach others.
But it was a very slow process,
and often took more than 20 years.